README.md, before:

# Cyclegg

**🚧 Here be dragons: research code ahead! 🚧**

## Overview

`cyclegg` is a fast theorem prover for equational reasoning powered by e-graphs. It
has two main contributions.

1. Efficient, exhaustive search of induction hypothesis and lemma applications.

<details>
<summary>Example: (add x y) = (add y x)</summary>
It can prove the above property (commutativity of addition) without
needing to discover any helper lemmas. It does this by applying the inductive
hypothesis several times in somewhat unconventional ways.
</details>

2. Lemma discovery based on subterms which appear in the goal.

<details>
<summary>Example: (rev (rev xs)) = xs</summary>
It can prove that reversing a list twice gives the same list by discovering and proving the lemma (Cons x (rev xs)) = (rev (append xs (Cons x Nil))).
</details>

`cyclegg` is fast: both of these examples run in under 50ms.

A sketch of its general algorithm can be found [here](./docs/proof-algorithm.md).

## Running

To run `cyclegg` on the IsaPlanner benchmarks, run the below command.

```shell
$ cargo run -r -- examples/isaplanner.ceg --timeout 5
```

Run with `--help` to see an overview of the different command-line flags.

``` shell
$ cargo run -- --help
```

## Preliminary results

As of 2a6aa34, when run with a timeout of 5s.

- IsaPlanner benchmarks: 78/86
- CLAM benchmarks: 30/50

## The name

`cyclegg` was originally based on [CycleQ](https://github.com/ec-jones/cycleq)
and its idea was to improve cyclic proof search using an e-graph (specifically,
the [egg](https://github.com/egraphs-good/egg) e-graph library). We have since
focused on the improvements e-graphs give to proof search as opposed to e-graphs
plus cyclic proofs. So the "cycl-" part of the name is now a misnomer. We'll
probably change the name soon.

## TODO

### Organizational
- Create goals inside parser, do not expose RawGoal
- Decouple proof generation from proof search (e.g. put Defs, Proof term somewhere else)
- Make partial applications without $ work
- Move from SymbolLang to a proper language.
    - See babble for inspiration (https://github.com/dcao/babble/blob/main/src/ast_node.rs)
- Emit a proof data structure
    - Right now we just emit strings that are (mostly) valid LiquidHaskell.
    - Creating a proper equational proof data structure would allow us to emit to other backends.
    - It would also be cleaner.

### Search
- In cyclic mode: use multi-patterns instead of requiring that the premise has no extra vars?      

### Proofs
- Conditional props proof generation
    - Add explanation for conditional unions (cannot just `union_trusted`).
    - Include the premise into the LH precondition
        - This can be accomplished by taking a witness of the precondition as an argument.
    - How to include the proof of the condition holding?
        - To use a conditional lemma you need a witness of the condition. We can take the e-graph from
          which we are getting the explanation and ask it to explain why the e-classes of the condition
          are equal and use those to build a proof. In LH this would look something like
          
          ```haskell
          let conditionWitness =   condLHS 
                               ==. condLHS'
                               ? lemma lemmaArgs
                               ==. condRHS
                               *** QED
           in conditionalLemma conditionWitness args
          ```

Commit message:

add a note for the future

README.md, after:

# Cyclegg

**🚧 Here be dragons: research code ahead! 🚧**

## A note to visitors from the future

Today is April 07, 2024. The state of this repo is presently **chaotic**. The
last commit was `a91eb7b` on Feburary 28, 2024. Especially during Feburary we
made changes with little regard for the cleanliness or organization of code or
repository. You may discover -- for example -- that there are feature flags
which do nothing, code that is completely dead, or that this repository's name
does not match the name we use in places that are not this repository. Please
accept my apologies.

Instead of cleaning up this repository, our plan is to do a rewrite of the
messiest parts in a fresh repository. If you see this message and the rewrite is
not clearly linked here, I advise that you look for it first before continuing!

Best of luck,
Cole

## Overview

`cyclegg` is a fast theorem prover for equational reasoning powered by e-graphs. It
has two main contributions.

1. Efficient, exhaustive search of induction hypothesis and lemma applications.

<details>
<summary>Example: (add x y) = (add y x)</summary>
It can prove the above property (commutativity of addition) without
needing to discover any helper lemmas. It does this by applying the inductive
hypothesis several times in somewhat unconventional ways.
</details>

2. Lemma discovery based on subterms which appear in the goal.

<details>
<summary>Example: (rev (rev xs)) = xs</summary>
It can prove that reversing a list twice gives the same list by discovering and proving the lemma (Cons x (rev xs)) = (rev (append xs (Cons x Nil))).
</details>

`cyclegg` is fast: both of these examples run in under 50ms.

A sketch of its general algorithm can be found [here](./docs/proof-algorithm.md).

## Running

To run `cyclegg` on the IsaPlanner benchmarks, run the below command.

```shell
$ cargo run -r -- examples/isaplanner.ceg --timeout 5
```

Run with `--help` to see an overview of the different command-line flags.

``` shell
$ cargo run -- --help
```

## Preliminary results

As of 2a6aa34, when run with a timeout of 5s.

- IsaPlanner benchmarks: 78/86
- CLAM benchmarks: 30/50

## The name

`cyclegg` was originally based on [CycleQ](https://github.com/ec-jones/cycleq)
and its idea was to improve cyclic proof search using an e-graph (specifically,
the [egg](https://github.com/egraphs-good/egg) e-graph library). We have since
focused on the improvements e-graphs give to proof search as opposed to e-graphs
plus cyclic proofs. So the "cycl-" part of the name is now a misnomer. We'll
probably change the name soon.

## TODO

### Organizational
- Create goals inside parser, do not expose RawGoal
- Decouple proof generation from proof search (e.g. put Defs, Proof term somewhere else)
- Make partial applications without $ work
- Move from SymbolLang to a proper language.
    - See babble for inspiration (https://github.com/dcao/babble/blob/main/src/ast_node.rs)
- Emit a proof data structure
    - Right now we just emit strings that are (mostly) valid LiquidHaskell.
    - Creating a proper equational proof data structure would allow us to emit to other backends.
    - It would also be cleaner.

### Search
- In cyclic mode: use multi-patterns instead of requiring that the premise has no extra vars?      

### Proofs
- Conditional props proof generation
    - Add explanation for conditional unions (cannot just `union_trusted`).
    - Include the premise into the LH precondition
        - This can be accomplished by taking a witness of the precondition as an argument.
    - How to include the proof of the condition holding?
        - To use a conditional lemma you need a witness of the condition. We can take the e-graph from
          which we are getting the explanation and ask it to explain why the e-classes of the condition
          are equal and use those to build a proof. In LH this would look something like
          
          ```haskell
          let conditionWitness =   condLHS 
                               ==. condLHS'
                               ? lemma lemmaArgs
                               ==. condRHS
                               *** QED
           in conditionalLemma conditionWitness args
          ```
